Human Resources Administration
311
Search all NYC.gov websites
Menu
Serving New Yorkers with Care & Compassion
Text-Size
Search
Search
Search
SNAP & CA
Homelessness Prevention
Health Assistance
Other Benefits & Services
Share
Print
SNAP Application Frequently Asked Questions
Expand All
Collapse All
Click a topic, or press the enter key on a topic, to reveal its answer.
Submitting an Application
Print, Mail, or Fax a SNAP Application or Recertification
My SNAP (Food Stamps) recertification is due and I can’t use ACCESS HRA. How can I recertify?
If you could not recertify on ACCESS HRA, you can recertify now using one of these ways:
Mail/Fax: Request a recertification form by phone at 718-557-1399 or download it
here
. Then, mail or fax your completed form:
Fax it to: (917) 639-2554
Mail: Centralized Recertification Mail Unit
P.O. Box 29008
Brooklyn, NY 11202
In person: Complete your recertification at a SNAP Center. You can find a location near you at
HRA SNAP Centers
Phone: Call the DSS OneNumber at 718-557-1399 to apply over the phone if the other submission options are difficult for you.
Who can apply?
Anyone can apply for SNAP benefits. Every person, regardless of their citizenship status or their income, is allowed to apply for SNAP benefits.
How do I apply for SNAP?
Go to the
SNAP guide
for a simple explainer of the application process.
Do I need to have a Social Security Number (SSN) to be eligible for benefits?
Generally, to be eligible for SNAP benefits, you and all of the members of your household must have a valid Social Security Number (SSN) or show proof of having applied for one. If you have an SSN, you can enter it when completing your application on ACCESS HRA or provide us with the number when you speak with a worker to process your application. ACCESS HRA keeps all of your information private and secure.
If you are applying for SNAP benefits on behalf of your children and you are undocumented, you do not need to apply for a SSN, and unfavorable actions cannot be taken against the eligible members of your household. Your children (unless undocumented) must have a valid SSN or show proof of having applied for one to be eligible for SNAP benefits.
What if I don't have a SSN?
If you are applying for SNAP benefits but do not have a SSN, you may still qualify for benefits. A worker will discuss your options for benefits during your interview to process your application.
Learn how to apply for a SSN
Will my immigration status impact my eligibility?
You can apply for and get SNAP benefits for eligible household member(s) even if you or some other members of your household are not eligible for benefits because of immigration status.
For example, ineligible non-citizens or undocumented parents can apply for and receive SNAP benefits for their eligible children even if the parent is ineligible.
You may be eligible for SNAP benefits if you are a United States (U.S.) citizen, a noncitizen U.S. national (person born in American Samoa or Swain Island), or a in a Qualified Alien Status (such as a Refugee).
What is a "SNAP household"?
Generally, a "SNAP household" consists of everyone who buys food and prepares meals together. People don't have to be part of the same family to be in the same SNAP household.
However, people who are part of the same family, or other certain individuals, often must be included in the same SNAP household even if they do not buy food and prepare meals together.
Examples include:
Spouses living together;
Persons under 22 years old who are the children of a household member;
Children under 18 who are under the parental control of a household member.
A household could be any of the following:
An individual living alone,
An individual living with others but buying food and preparing meals separately;
A group of individuals who live together and buy food and prepare meals together for a majority of meals a month
Note:
If you live with a roommate and do not buy food and prepare meals together, please list your roommate on your application and enter "No" in the Household Information section for the question "Does he/she buy and prepare food with you?"
Note:
An individual away from the household for military assignment is not counted as a member of the SNAP household.
What is an authorized representative?
An authorized representative is someone who knows your household circumstances and can apply for SNAP benefits for you. You can authorize someone outside your household to get SNAP benefits for you and allow them to buy food for you with your SNAP benefit card (EBT Card). If you would like to authorize someone, you must do so in writing.
Note:
All representatives must be authorized in writing by the applicant/recipient or other responsible adult member of the household.
It is recommended, but not required, that all applicants/recipients use the
Authorized Representative Form
when designating an authorized representative for purposes of applying for or accessing their SNAP benefits.
What will the application ask?
The application will ask questions about:
The people that live in your home, including their age, relationship to you, and immigration status.
The money your household members earn from working at a job or from self-employment.
The money your household members receive from other sources, including money they receive from Unemployment Insurance Benefits (UIB), Workers' Compensation, Social Security Benefits, Child Support, or Supplemental Security Income.
The bills and expenses your household pays each month including rent or mortgage payments, electricity, heat, child care or medical bills (paid or unpaid).
The resources that are available to your household members, including cash on hand and bank accounts.
If any of the household members are enrolled in an institution of higher learning, like college, employment training program, business, or vocational school.
You will be asked to provide proof of some of the answers you have given. Please see the FAQ about documentation requirements for more detail.
Is the online SNAP application different from the paper SNAP application?
The questions may be asked differently online than on the paper form, but the same information will be required in all cases.
Eligibility is determined by the Human Resources Administration (HRA), whether you submit an online application or paper application.
The same procedure at HRA is used for applications whether they are submitted online or through the mail.
What are the advantages of submitting a completed application online?
The advantages of submitting a completed application online are:
It should save you time during your interview with the Human Resources Administration (HRA) worker. By providing more information in your online application now, your HRA worker may have fewer questions to ask you later.
You can start your online application and save it until you are ready to complete and submit it.
Please note that the sooner you submit a completed application, the sooner your application will be reviewed and a decision can be made.
Your application file date, which determines the date that benefits are issued from (if determined eligible) will be registered as the day you submit your application.
What happens when I visit a SNAP Walk-In Customer Service Center? What can I do there?
Our walk-in customer service centers are available to assist any SNAP recipients or people who are interested in becoming SNAP recipients. Upon arriving, you will need to get a ticket from one of the kiosks near the center’s entrance. Your ticket will contain instructions on where you need to go to wait for your ticket number to be called. Staff will be available to assist you as needed. Once your ticket is called, a staff member at one of our service windows will be available to meet with you.
Depending on the nature of your visit, you may then be redirected to another part of our center for further assistance. While we strive to keep our wait times as low as possible, please be prepared for longer wait times particularly if there is a high volume of clients at the center.
At our SNAP walk-in customer service centers, you
CAN
:
Receive help with completing your on-demand telephone interview OR with completing your interview face to face, if needed.
Receive help with completing an online application/ recertification OR with completing a paper application/ recertification, if needed.
Scan and submit required documentation for your SNAP case.
Use one of our computers to work on your case online.
Get a temporary EBT card. This card is only to be used while you are waiting to receive your permanent card.
Get information about EBT card security and protection. Information can also be found
here
, and you can access your cardholder portal
here
.
Get answers to questions or concerns you may have about your application or current case.
At our SNAP walk-in customer service centers, you
CAN NOT:
Receive your benefits immediately. Benefits will be received as soon as your case is processed completely. If you are eligible for expedited SNAP benefits (E-SNAP), you will receive your benefits within 7 days.
Get a permanent EBT card. You will be mailed your permanent card or can choose to pick it up at our 505 Clermont Ave, Brooklyn location.
(In many situations) immediately resolve issues to your case. While there are some problems that we can solve while you are with us, other problems require more involved processing work. You can expect the discussed problems to be resolved within
7 business days
of your visit. You will receive a mailed confirmation of this resolution when it is finalized.
What is the minimum amount of information required to submit my application?
The minimum amount of information you must provide to submit your application is:
Your name
Your address (if you have one)
Your electronic signature
This information will establish your application filing date. In most instances, if you are determined eligible for SNAP benefits, the benefits will be issued from the date the agency received your application. However, the application process must be completed and we must interview you to determine your eligibility.
Note:
You should fill out as much of the application as you can before submitting it, it should reduce the amount of time needed to conduct your eligibility interview with a Human Resources Administration (HRA) worker.
What are the advantages of completing the 'Verify your Identity' questions?
If you correctly complete the "Verify your Identity" questions, the Human Resources Administration (HRA) can immediately confirm the identity of the head of household / primary contact, and you will not need to submit documents (for example: social security card or birth certificate) to prove their identity after you submit your application.
What does it mean to 'Set your Filing Date'?
Your Filing date is set on the day you electronically sign and submit your application to the Human Resources Administration (HRA). If you are eligible for SNAP benefits, they will be issued as of the filing date.
If you submit your online application after normal business hours, your filing date will be the next business day.
You are allowed to submit your application and set your filing date even if you have not completed the entire application. Please keep in mind that we cannot determine your eligibility until you provide all the information and the required documentation.
What changes do I need to report to SNAP and when do I have to report them?
Learn more on the SNAP Frequently Asked Questions page
Next Steps/ Completing the Eligibility Process
What happens after my application is submitted?
When you submit your application and electronically sign it, your application will be sent to the Human Resources Administration (HRA).
Your application will be reviewed by an HRA worker.
You must call HRA to complete your interview at the number you were provided; you must complete this important step to get/keep your benefits as HRA will not call you to schedule the interview.
Once your application is submitted, ACCESS HRA does not have access to the status of your application.
How can I complete my interview?
If you submit a new application or a recertification for SNAP benefits, you must have an eligibility interview.
You can have your eligibility interview over the telephone or, if needed, in person.
By Phone
Agency:
Human Resources Administration
Division:
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Interview Phone Line
Phone Number:
(718) 762-7669
Business Hours:
Monday - Friday: 8:30 AM - 5 PM
In Person
You can go to any SNAP Walk-in Customer Service Center and tell them that you need an in-person interview.
Find a SNAP Walk-in Customer Service Center near you.
How can I submit documents for my eligibility?
After you submit your application, a list of documents you may need to provide the Human Resources Administration (HRA) will be shown. This list may be different for each household, depending on what information you provided in your application.
The
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Documentation Guide (W-129G)
provides a detailed list of documents you can use to verify the information you provided in your application.
You can submit documents for eligibility using the ACCESS HRA mobile app, by fax, at a SNAP Center, at a Community Based Organization, or by mail.
HRA Mobile Documentation Upload
Visit the
ACCESS HRA Mobile
in your smartphone or tablet's browser to submit documents.
Fax:
917-639-2544
Mail
:    Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
P.O. Box 29008
Brooklyn, NY 11202
*When faxing or mailing documents please be sure to write the client's name and case number on each page of the document to ensure accurate indexing.
In Person
Find the SNAP Walk-in Customer Service Center closest to you
Community Based Organization
Find a community based organization close to you
Please remember to submit copies of your documents and do not send originals.
A document receipt will be mailed to you once your documents are processed by HRA.
Do I have to work in order to get benefits?
Starting in 2025, some people may need to meet the Able-Bodied Adults Without Dependents (ABAWDs) work rules. If this applies to you, you must meet the ABAWD work rules for more than three (3) months in thirty-six (36) months to receive benefits. A Human Resources Administration (HRA) worker can discuss the details of work requirements during your interview.
In addition, there are situations where individuals are subject to the Voluntary Quit provisions.
Am I eligible for Expedited Processing?
You may be qualified to receive Expedited SNAP benefits (sometimes referred to as E-SNAP benefits) within 7 calendar days of the day you apply for benefits:
If your household has little or no income or resources, or
If your rent and utility expenses are more than your income and resources, or
You are a migrant or seasonal farm worker with little or no income or resources when you apply.
Your circumstances will be reviewed to see if you qualify for expedited processing of your SNAP benefits application. A process is in place to ensure that benefits will be issued in a timely manner to all households who qualify to receive benefits under the expedited processing rules.
How soon will I get my benefits?
Each application is reviewed to see if a household qualifies for expedited processing. Please note: Even if you qualify for expedited processing, you may not qualify for a SNAP benefit.
Before you can receive benefits, you must have an interview with a Human Resources Administration (HRA) worker so they can begin to figure out what benefits you are qualified to receive.
If you qualify for expedited processing and are determined eligible for benefits, you may receive a one-time expedited benefit, pending ongoing approval, within 5 calendar days from the date your application is filed.
For example:
if you filed your application on April 1st, the 5-day period will begin April 2nd and if approved for expedited processing and determined eligible for benefits you will receive an allotment of benefits by April 6th. This allotment will usually last for one-month.
Note:
In many instances, the initial issuance under the expedited processing rules will cover more than one month.
By law, HRA must give you an answer about your on-going application for benefits within 30 days of the day after your filing date.
For example:
if you filed your application on April 1st, the 30-day period will begin April 2nd and you will be told whether your application has been approved or denied by May 1st.
Are college students eligible for SNAP?
Most able-bodied students ages 18 through 49 who are enrolled at least half-time in college or other institution of higher education are not eligible for SNAP. However, students who are otherwise eligible may be able to get SNAP.
Learn more about SNAP student eligibility.
View the SUNY/CUNY/EOC Student Verification of Enrollment Form (LDSS-5172) in:
English
Español
Русский
العربية
中文
Kreyòl Ayisyen
한국어
বাংলা
Will I have to get fingerprinted to get SNAP?
You are not required to be fingerprinted to get SNAP.
Inquiries/ Check Status
How can I see the most up to date information on my application(s) and cases?
You can
check the status of your application on ACCESS HRA
. On your Home screen, click the "View My Cases" button.
If you have not linked your ACCESS HRA account with your Human Resources Administration (HRA) case, you will be asked to provide the primary contact's Date of Birth and their Social Security Number or Client Identification Number (CIN). This will allow HRA to locate your history.
You can view all of your SNAP and Cash Assistance cases for the last 12 months. Click on the "Show Info" link next to each case to get details for the status, upcoming appointments, and any next steps you'll need to take to complete the application or recertification process.
On the phone, you can call the DSS OneNumber at 718-557-1399 if you have questions about the status of your application or recertification.
You can also go into a local SNAP center and request information about your case.
Can I receive text messages or emails about my application or case?
Yes you can!
If you opt-in to receiving text messages and/or emails about your application, and you provide accurate email and cell phone information, you can receive emails and/or text messages about your application and upcoming due dates.
Emails
First, you will be sent an email from us asking you to confirm your email address. After opening that email and clicking on the link, your email address will be confirmed in our system and you will start receiving emails about your application or case. We will never share your email address or send confidential case information over email.
Texts
If you wish to receive text messages about your application or case, please provide a contact number where we can send text messages. Please note that text message rates from your telephone company may apply.
You can update these preference at any time by logging into ACCESS HRA and then clicking on the drop down option; located at the top right section of the page, next to your username or email address and selecting 'Profile'. To edit your information, click the "Update" button on the 'Contact Information' section.
Can I see received notices online?
You can see what notices you recently received for your case by logging onto ACCESS HRA and selecting "E-notices" from the menu option. If you are enrolled in 'Paperless notices', you must read all notices issued to your case within 30 days. Failure to do so will result in your disenrollment in Paperless notices.
Note:
Not all notices for your case are shown on this page. Certain notices will only be received by mail at your 'Mailing Address' on file. In order to view a notice, click the 'View Notice' icon.
HRA will notify you when notices are posted to you ACCESS HRA account. Please note that you can update these preference at any time by logging into ACCESS HRA and then clicking on the drop down option; located at the top right section of the page, next to your username or email address and selecting 'Profile'. To edit your information, click the "Update" button on the 'Contact Information' section.
If you have not linked to your ACCESS HRA account with your Human Resources Administration (HRA) case, you will be presented with the "Find My Case" page where you will be asked to enter Date of Birth and Social Security Number OR Client Identification Number (CIN). This will allow HRA to locate your case information.
How long can I receive benefits?
There is no time limit to how long you can receive benefits.
You and your household members can receive benefits for as long as you meet the eligibility requirements and cooperate with the Human Resources Administration(HRA) program requirements.
You can still apply for SNAP benefits even if you have reached your Cash Assistance time limits.
If my application is denied, how soon can I apply again?
You have the right to reapply at any time.
How can I check the status of my SNAP application?
Online
You can check the status of your application on ACCESS HRA on your 'Home' page.
If you have not linked to your ACCESS HRA account with your Human Resources Administration (HRA) case, you will be presented with the "Find My Case" page where you will be asked to enter Date of Birth and Social Security Number or Client Identification Number (CIN). This will allow HRA to locate your case information.
Case History:
You can view all cases for the last 12 months, along with the status of each case by clicking on the "Benefits" menu option at the top of the page.
Case Details:
You can view when your recertification is due, request a budget letter, household members on your case and more by clicking on the card with the "View Case" option.
On the Phone
Call the DSS OneNumber at 718-557-1399 if you have additional question about your case.
In a Center
You can call or visit an HRA Benefits Access Center and request information about your case.
What if I already submitted my application or recertification (by mail, fax, or online)?
There is no need to submit an application or recertification online if you have just recently submitted another application for the same program to Human Resources Administration (HRA). Please follow the instructions you received to call HRA for your interview for your application or recertification as
we will not be calling you
to schedule the interview. If you have already completed your interview, you will be notified whether you are eligible for benefits.
Please call the DSS OneNumber at 718-557-1399 to find out the status of your application or recertification.
What if I have submitted an application in the past and withdrew that application, does that have a negative impact on my most current application?
Withdrawing a SNAP application does not have a negative impact on your current SNAP application. Applicants are free to withdraw and apply as many times as they deem necessary without penalty.
How do I request a reasonable accommodation?
Please follow the instructions found on the
Disability Access page
. If you have additional questions, please call the DSS OneNumber at 718-557-1399.
Where can I register to vote?
You can register to vote at any HRA Center or PC Bank. Ask any staff person in the PC Bank for a Voter Registration form, complete and sign it and drop it in the convenient basket. We will mail it to the Board of Elections for you. Or , if you prefer, you may print and mail the form from your own home as part of your submitted Application or Recertification. Complete and mail the form to the Board of Elections, 32 Broadway, 7th Floor, New York, NY 10275-0067. If you would like to contact the
Board of Elections
for information, call 866-VOTE-NYC; TTY 212-487-5496.
What items can be purchased with SNAP Benefits?
Food or food products meant to be eaten by people
Seeds to grow vegetables and plants that provide food, such as basil or tomato
Baby formula, diabetic, and diet foods
Spices, herbs, pectin, shortening and other edible items used for cooking
Water and ice labeled for human consumption
Snack foods
What items cannot be purchased with SNAP Benefits?
Prepared hot foods in grocery stores
Any prepared food (hot or cold) sold and meant to be eaten at the store
Alcoholic beverages and tobacco
Cleaning products, paper products, toiletries, and cooking utensils
Pet supplies
Items for food preservation such as canning jars and lids, freezer containers, or food wrapping paper
Medicines, vitamins, or minerals
Items for gardening such as fertilizer and peat moss
How can I get a budget letter?
Use
ACCESS HRA
or call the DSS OneNumber at 718-557-1399.
Will SNAP affect my disability payments?
If you receive SSI/ Disability benefits, you can still qualify for SNAP. Receiving SNAP does not reduce your SSI/ Disability payments.
What do I do if I didn’t receive a recertification form?
To submit online and save yourself mail processing time, go to the
ACCESS HRA Website
or the ACCESS HRA mobile app. Log-in or create an account to submit your recertification.
If you do not have a computer or mobile device, you can complete the recertification form sent with your notice. You can also get a recertification form mailed to you by calling 718-557-1399 or by visiting any
SNAP center
or
community partner location
.
Where can I use SNAP online?
You can now use your SNAP benefits to shop online for fresh produce and groceries.
Participating online stores now accept SNAP benefits for online orders and will deliver to you. Use your EBT card to shop securely for fresh produce and groceries at these participating stores in the New York City area:
Amazon
ShopRite
Walmart
Visit these online retailers to order your groceries online!
Note: SNAP benefits cannot be used to pay delivery fees. Be sure to confirm an online store delivers to your home address.
Can I use SNAP benefits at farmers markets?
SNAP benefits can be used year-round at all NYC farmers markets through “Health Bucks.” Health Bucks are $2 coupons that can be used to purchase fresh fruits and vegetables at all NYC farmers markets. For every $2 spent at farmers markets using SNAP on an EBT card, you can get $2 in Health Bucks, up to $10 per day.
How do I repay a SNAP overpayment?
The Division of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program - Claims & Recovery (SNAP-CR) makes sure that all SNAP benefits comply with United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and State regulations. If extra benefits might have been paid, SNAP-CR reviews the case for accuracy. If SNAP-CR finds that extra benefits were paid, it establishes an overpayment claim with the State. SNAP-CR can recover overpayments on both open and closed cases. SNAP-CR also implements and lifts Intention Program Violation (IPV) sanctions.
SNAP-CR answers questions on billing inquiries, assists with US Department of the Treasury Offset Program (TOP) questions, and tracks money received on SNAP claims.
Questions? Please contact us:
Email:
snapclaimandrecovery@dss.nyc.gov
DSS OneNumber: 718-557-1399
Please send payments to:
New York City Department of Social Services/HRA
Investigation, Revenue and Enforcement Administration
SNAP Claims and Recovery
375 Pearl Street, 23rd Floor
New York, NY 10038
Make checks payable to the "
HRA Department of Social Services
"
Please include on the check or money order:
1. Signature
2. Date
3. Dollar amount written out on check
4. Case Name
5. Case Number
Repayment Information: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)