OTDA-4357- EL (REV 05/25)  40 North Pearl Street, Albany, NY 12243-0001 │ www.otda.ny.gov 1 
KAT
HY HOCHUL 
Governor 
BARBARA C. GUINN 
Commissioner  
RAJNI CHAWLA 
Executive Deputy Commissioner
General Information System (GIS) Message 
Section 1 
Transmittal: 25DC081 
Upstate and New York City 
Date: November 21, 2025 
To:  Subscribers 
Suggested Distribution:  Commissioners, Temporary Assistance Directors, SNAP 
Directors, Employment Coordinators, Staff Development 
Coordinators, WMS Coordinators, Fair Hearing Staff  
From: Valerie Figueroa, Deputy Commissioner, Employment and 
Income Support Programs  
Subject:  Reinstatement of the Able-Bodied Adults Without Dependents 
(ABAWD) Time Limit Waiver    
Effective Date: Immediately 
Contact Information:  Employment and Advancement Services Bureau (518) 486-6106 
or EASBureau@otda.ny.gov
Attachments:  None
Section 2 
The purpose of this GIS is to provide social services districts (districts) with an update on New 
York’s able-bodied adults without dependents (ABAWD) time limit waiver for all areas of the 
State excluding Saratoga County. Districts were informed in 25-ADM-03-P that our ABAWD 
waiver was terminated by the United States Department of Agriculture’s Food and Nutrition 
Service (USDA FNS) as of 11/2/25. Litigation in the U.S. District Court of Rhode Island has 
blocked that termination and as such New York’s ABAWD waiver for all counties of the 
State except Saratoga from March 1, 2025, to February 28, 2026, remains in effect. 
Section 3 
Effective immediately, all districts excluding Saratoga County must waive the ABAWD time 
limit.  
All districts are required to continue to screen SNAP applicants and recipients for an exemption 
from SNAP work requirements and/or an exemption from the ABAWD time limit and correctly 
assign the SNAP employability and ABAWD status codes to each individual applying for or 



OTDA-4357-EL (REV 05/25) 40 North Pearl Street, Albany, NY 12243-0001 │ www.otda.ny.gov 2 
receiving SNAP benefits, including those individuals who are concurrently applying for or 
receiving Public Assistance (PA) as outlined in 25-ADM-03-P - Able-Bodied Adult Without 
Dependents (ABAWD) Time Limit Policy Update and Guidance.  
Districts are still required to begin screening for and applying the modified ABAWD exemption 
criteria based on changes resulting from H.R. 1 to all initial applications and recertification 
applications received beginning November 1, 2025. For example, if the district receives a late 
recertification application in November 2025, from a household with a certification period 
expiring October 31, 2025, it must apply the modified exemptions. Districts must continue 
sending the updated LDSS-5193 - Important Information About SNAP Work Rules (General, 
Mandatory E&T and ABAWD) (Rev. 10/25) to all individuals screened and identified as 
ABAWDs after November 1, 2025.    
Districts must ensure that the correct SNAP employability and ABAWD status codes are 
entered on the Welfare Management System (WMS) at the time of opening and recertification 
for SNAP benefits even while under a waiver. The SNAP employability and ABAWD status 
codes must also be updated in a timely manner whenever a change in the individual’s SNAP 
employability and/or ABAWD status is reported and documented.  
Effective immediately, districts other than Saratoga County are not required to provide 
individuals identified as ABAWDs with the LDSS-5127 ABAWD Work Activity Letter (Rev. 
10/25). Rather, districts other than Saratoga County should begin sending the LDSS-5127 
based on operational need to support ABAWD engagement prior to the updated ABAWD 
waiver termination date of February 28, 2026. OTDA recommends that large districts begin 
reissuing the LDSS-5127 in January 2026 and smaller districts may choose to send them 
beginning February 2026. All existing appointments scheduled using the LDSS-5127 issued 
prior to the release of this GIS can be continued. However, the ABAWD’s compliance with the 
appointment for the offer of an ABAWD qualifying work activity is not mandatory as a matter of 
eligibility, and failure to appear will not result in conciliation or imposition of a SNAP sanction. 
ABAWDs who attend these appointments should be made aware of the new waiver termination 
date and that tracked months for failure to comply with the ABAWD requirement would not 
begin until March 2026. This appointment is separate and apart from any other mandatory work 
activity appointments or assignments given as part of the individual’s PA work assignment or 
SNAP E&T work assignment. OTDA encourages districts to continue to engage with this 
population during the remainder of the waiver period.   
Effective immediately, OTDA will adjust the ABAWD tracker in the Welfare Reporting and 
Tracking System (WRTS) to reflect a district waiver for every district other than Saratoga 
County. 